---
layout: post
title: Week 14 Use of Open Source within Different Industries and Reflection on the Group Project
---

## Use of Open Source within Different Industries
Traditionally, open source software has provided a powerful alternative to expensive proprietary software. For example, graphic design softwares like GIMP, Inkscape, and Blender have become go-to tools for graphic designers, offering advanced functionality and customization options at no cost. Furthermore, open source software has been critical in enabling scientific research and collaboration as well. Open source software has been used to build data analysis tools, simulations, and modeling software, among other applications. By sharing data and tools openly, researchers can accelerate scientific progress and drive innovation.
<!--more-->

Like this, open source software has been a driving force in technology for decades, but its impact has now extended beyond technology into fields as diverse as politics, finance, etc.

In politics, open source software has the potential to increase transparency and accountability. For example, open source software can be used to track government spending, improve access to public records, and provide greater visibility into the legislative process. By making government more transparent, open source software can help to build trust and promote greater citizen engagement in the democratic process.

In finance, open source software has revolutionized the way that financial institutions operate. Open source software has been used to build trading platforms, risk management tools, and financial analytics software, among other applications. By leveraging open source software, financial institutions can reduce costs, improve efficiency, and increase innovation.

In art, open source software has provided new creative tools for artists to explore. From digital painting software like Krita to 3D modeling software like Blender, open source software has enabled artists to experiment and push the boundaries of what is possible.

In food, open source software has been used to develop tools for food safety, recipe management, and supply chain management. By making this software open source, food producers can collaborate more effectively and reduce the risk of foodborne illness outbreaks.

Open source software has had a profound impact on a wide range of fields beyond technology, providing new opportunities for collaboration, innovation, and creativity. As we look to the future, it is clear that open source software will continue to play a critical role in driving progress and transforming the world around us.

## Reflection on the Group Project
We integrated the functions for the connection, and now we have to finish the ones for saving the credential data as a Panda dataframe. Since our method of connection is provided by Google, it can only accept credentials in the form of a JSON file. So, we will save the credentials in a JSON file to establish the connection.