---
layout: post
title: Week 6 Choosing An Open Source Project
---


Looking through evaluations of different projects, I noticed that many of famous or popular open source software projects are web development related. More broadly, many of the projects are targeting programmers as users, usually by branching off and improving the performance of another already existing project. While I do think that this is a proper way for computer science to evolve, I felt like working on a project that can give a more general impact to people outside of the pool of programmers would be more interesting. So I looked through some of those, and I saw that many of their communities are much smaller and less friendly. Maybe this is because those projects are not familiar to most programmers or because they are run by smaller companies who can't put enough effort into welcoming new contributors. So finding the middle is important because there is no space for me in too big communities where members are constantly looking for their part or too small communities where everything is already split up perfectly.
<!--more-->
Once I find a good community for me, I'm mostly excited to work with them and to experience the whole process. I'm thinking that this will feel like a huge group project, and I'm very curious how this will actually work out. Since I don't have any control over it, I don't expect too much, but my ultimate goal would be that I do some significant work that becomes reflected on the project. It would be even better if I could be recognized as a contributor. The biggest challenge I expect is understanding different parts of the code and how they all come together to bring the code to work. Many projects I looked through have several folders and sometimes several repositories. How each of them are related seemed very complicated, especially when they use programming languages or frameworks that I'm not familiar with. I don't think there's any special ways to overcome this kind of challenge except to just try. So I plan to use and understand the features of the projects first, then to read the documentations, and to map the files in relations to other files in terms of their functions. I think this should tell me what kind of issues I'll be able to tackle. Once I choose which one I want to work on, I'll start from there and figure out what I actually have to know in depth. Then I can study that and work on resolving the issue.