---
layout: post
title: Week 1 Meaning of Open Source
---

Before I took an interest in open source software development, the term "open source" meant free to me. I was using many open source softwares, but, many times, I was not aware they were open source or didn't know what that really meant. I simply thought that the codes were distributed at no cost.

And this is actually true.
However, it is quite misleading to think that free cost is the only idea the term implies. It is one of its characteristics, but there are more important ideas behind it. Let's compare with closed source. 
Closed source is what's opposite of open source. The biggest difference is that its source code is not disclosed to the public. This has certain advantages and disadvantages to open source. The biggest advantage is monetization. Since the source code is kept in secret, it is still a marketable product for anyone who desires the functions supported by the code. You can sell it as any other commercial products. The downside of closed source is limited amount of labor. No matter how many people is hired to work on a closed source project, that number cannot overcome the number of people working on an open source project where anyone who has enough interest and knowledge can freely come and go. Collective intelligence is the key in any kind of development, especially in the field of science.

This does not mean that open source is key to everything. A huge problem in open source is, again, monetization. Unlike closed source, open source cannot be sold for money. Big organizations or corporates could build additional features on top of already existing open source and turn those into products, but individual contributors bascially have no way to be paid. They are working solely for their passion. Fortunately, there is a donation system on GitHub for these people, but in a capitalist society, I don't know how long we can rely on them. So, maybe one could say open source is based on philantropy.

This is why I decided to take a class about open source software development. I wanted to know more deeply about how this interesting system works. I wanted to learn about the ecosystem of open source software development and how this fits into the bigger community of software development in general.

The term "open source" is not limited to software development. For example, Wikipedia is an open source project. Anyone who wishes to add their knowledge to the document can do so. The problem for Wikipedia is that no one is there to confirm whether it's correct. Still, it is a good place to check any basic information or broadly related ideas for a specific topic. I personally use Wikipedia often when I look something up for personal interest or when I need a starting point for essays. Other open source projects include React, MongoDB, and Python. All of these are popular for developers, and I also regularly use them.  
