---
layout: post
title: Week 3 Git Activity and Web Extension Project
---

# Git Activity
The git activity in class involved basic yet essential functions of version control system and Github. Although I knew what fork, branch, push, pull, etc. were, it was helpful to be reminded of what they exactly are again and how they differ from each other. Also, seeing how they can be done through command line was useful because I always get them confused.

<!--more-->


# Add-On Project
Continued from week 2, the team had decided to make a web extension that displays time and date of current moment when a new tab is opened in the browser. First we created a repository and other documents in it that were needed for an open source project. As we wrote the README.md file, we discussed more deeply about the features the web extension should have: time, date, weather, and backgound. We divided up the work so everyone works on either time and date, weather, or backgound. A problem the team faced was that one person never used plain JavaScript and another person never used React before. We ended up using React and I personally faced some unexpected problems with the version of npm and build files used for web extensions. In the end, I was able to add time and date of the system in the design and format as the team discussed. Then, when we tried to see how weather would work, we realized that there's no built-in modules and a lot of the APIs had to be purchased. So we decided to take the feature out. It was a small, but very successful group project. Every member was very open to communication and we all worked very collaboratively, which is not always happening during group projects.