---
layout: post
title: Week 9 Talk with Jim Hall and Reflection on the Group Project
---


## Invited Speaker: Jim Hall
Jim Hall is the founder of the FreeDOS Project and an advocate for open source softwares. He started the project in 1994 so his work basically has been with the history of open source software. What is amazing is that he essentially started this project all on his own and only for his love for MS-DOS. He was a physics major, but the fact that MS-DOS was going away made him wanted to recreate it from the bottom, and this ended up becoming his career for life. 
<!--more-->
He spent quite a bit talking about the history of computer science. This was because it is closely related to his history. Because he was there when the first commercial computer was there and when the first operating system or softwares were there, he was able to learn from the very fundamentals and together grow with the advancement in technology. In contrast, today, the world is flooded with thousands of different programming concepts, languages, tools, etc. Maybe this makes involvement in software development easier or more difficult. It gave me something to think about over time.


## Progress on the Group Project
Group members have gotten together and looked into the MindsDB project more deeply. Since none of us have used it before, to understand how MindsDB works, we first tried to install the application. Unlike the simplicity that the README.md file seems to show, installment is quite complicated. One member who uses Mac was able to successfully install it, but another member and I who use Windows have troubles that seems to be related to version issues. About this, we decided to get together in person to look into the problem and left a question on the project's Slack channel. 

We also decided on the type of issue that we want to work on. The community is very open to new contribtors and has a pretty detailed explanation for most parts of the projects. So it is easy to decide on which issue to work on and to change if we happen to decide that this one is not for us. Thankfully, it seems like we all share similar interests/priorities when it comes down to making decisions, and so far everyone seems responible so I look forward for future team work.