---
layout: post
title: Week 7 Choosing An Open Source Project as a Group
---

## Selection
My group members didn't have any common projects that we put down on the Google form, so we had to discuss what our each of our interests are first. Scott and I didn't have specific interests that we strongly wanted to work on, but Sid's first choice was Terasology. Unfortunately, rest of us are not very knowledgeable about gaming so instead we decided that our priority should be a welcoming and easy-to-enter community. <!--more--> We then took some time to look at evaluations. For some time, we weren't able to quite find a project that seemed good to work on. While crossing out options on our list, we realized that Scott put down many projects and one of them was Mindsdb which was what I had put down. I asked Sid what he thinks about it, and he said he would like to work on this project also. Hence, my group decided that the project we want to work on should be Mindsdb.

## Hopes and Worries
As soon as we selected the project, we joined the community's Slack channel where we introduced ourselves as a team. Few hours after class that day, I got a welcoming reply. I felt very relieved because it seemed like we picked a good community that's active in communication. Still, I have worries, and some of them are actually communication within the group. My past experiences with group projects had not been so great mostly because someone in the group decides either to not reply to the group chat in a timely manner or to not participate in group meetings actively to communicate what they accomplished or their challenges. Of course, the group work has just started so I don't worry too much about this yet and am only looking forward to contribute to this project we selected.