---
layout: post
title: Week 12 Talk with Christopher Snider and Reflection on the Group Project
---


## Invited Speaker: Christopher Snider
This week, Christopher Snider gave a talk to the class about the nonprofit organization he represented called Tidepool, an open source project that is committed to helping all people with insulin-requiring diabetes safely achieve great outcomes through more accessible, actionable, and meaningful diabetes data. His talk shed light on the importance of open source software in the healthcare industry and how Tidepool is making diabetes more manageable through the power of open source and radical transparency.
<!--more--> 

The healthcare industry has much to gain from embracing open source software. Open source software allows healthcare organizations to leverage the knowledge and expertise of developers to create better tools, creating a more collaborative, innovative, and transparent healthcare industry, leading to better patient outcomes. Projects like Tidepool are leading the way in transforming patient care through the power of open source and radical transparency.

Tidepool's software allows patients to track their blood glucose levels, insulin doses, and other health data, giving them a more complete picture of their health and enabling them to make better decisions about their care. What sets Tidepool apart is its commitment to radical transparency. All of Tidepool's code is open source, which means that anyone can review it, modify it, or use it to build their own tools. Tidepool also shares information about its development process, including its development roadmap, bug reports, and user feedback with the public. This transparency builds trust and ensures that Tidepool's software is of the highest quality.




## Group Project Reflection
I personally had a busy week and couldn't devote as much time to the project as I would have liked. Meanwhile, our team is focusing on the authentication process required to obtain Google Fit data from the API. To help guide us through the process, we found a useful tutorial on the internet that provided some instructions on how to access the Google Fit API and retrieve data. With this tutorial, we were able to understand better how it should work. While we still have more work to do, we are making some progress. I plan to spend much more time on the issue this week and hope to make a bigger progress.