---
layout: post
title: Week 13 Use of Open Source for Business and Reflection on the Group Project
---


## Use of Open Source for Business
In today's fast-paced business world, innovation and customization are key drivers for success. Many businesses are turning to open source software as a cost-effective and flexible solution to meet their unique needs. This has given rise to different business models that revolve around open source, where the key is keeping two versions of the software: a core open source version and a proprietary version with customizations and improvements.
<!--more-->

One common approach used by businesses is to provide the core of a project as open source while keeping addons, customizations, and improvements as proprietary. This allows businesses to leverage the benefits of open source, such as community-driven development and collaboration, while also retaining the ability to differentiate their product or service with proprietary features. For example, in the technology industry, companies like WordPress, a popular content management system, provide the core software as open source, allowing users to create and manage websites for free. However, they also offer paid plugins, themes, and customization services to enhance the usability of the core software and generate revenue.

Another approach is to create a proprietary fork of an open source core, which contains extra features not found in the original "core" version. This allows businesses to create their own version of the software with added functionality and maintain a competitive edge in the market. For instance, MongoDB offers both an open source version and a proprietary version with additional enterprise-level features for advanced users who require more robust capabilities. This model allows them to monetize their software by offering premium features to enterprise customers while still benefiting from the community-driven development of the open source core.

There are also several successful open source business models that these approaches fall under. One such model is the support and services model, where businesses provide technical support, consulting, and training services around the open source software. Advertisement partnerships are another potential business model for open source software. Companies can leverage the wide user base of open source software to generate revenue through partnerships with advertisers. Paid additional features, also known as open core, is another popular business model for open source software. In this model, the core software is provided as open source, but additional premium features or functionality are offered as paid add-ons. Lastly, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) is a business model that leverages open source software to offer cloud-based services to customers. Businesses can host and manage the open source software on their servers and provide access to users through a subscription-based model.


## Group Project Reflection
After facing initial challenges with connecting to Google Fit and struggling with the lack of detailed documentation, our team was able to successfully authenticate requests and receive data thanks to non-official resources and open-source projects. However, we encountered difficulties in utilizing MindsDB's libraries and formatting the retrieved data as the example handlers varied significantly between applications. Despite these challenges, we made progress in understanding the complexities of the integration process. Open-source projects played a crucial role in our success, as we found a solution for connecting to the Google Fit API through an open-source project when official documentation was lacking. This experience highlights the power of open source in helping businesses overcome obstacles.