---
layout: post
title: Week 11 The Cathedral and the Bazaar and Group Project Reports
---


## The Cathedral and the Bazaar
"The Cathedral and the Bazaar" is an essay written by Eric S. Raymond about software engineering methods, specifically contrasting two different free software development models, the cathedral model where its source code is restricted to only certain directly affiliated developers except when each software is released and the bazaar model where the entire source code is open to the public and developed over the Internet. There are advantages and disadvantages for both approaches: the former requires planning and a complete understanding of the system. This doesn't allow coding to begin until designing and planning are completed to a sufficient level. On the other hand, the latter focuses on coding and early testing. This has the risk of codes being without a clear idea of how they can be used with other codes in the software, but it also has a benefit of reusability. 
<!--more--> 

Before I read, I never particularly thought of the different models for open source software development, and I just assumed all open source projects would follow the bazaar style. However, as I was reading, I was again convinced that the bazaar model is a better method of open source software development. I felt that a lot of the lessons introduced were only involved with the bazaar model. Some of the lessons that seemed interesting to me were "Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong", "Smart data structures and dumb code works a lot better than the other way around", and "Plan to throw one version away; you will, anyhow." All three share an inherently same value of the bazaar model which is to develop quickly and discard quickly if it ends up heading a wrong direction. This speaks to me personally too since when I, for example, realize something from the beginning had gone wrong when I am half way into a project, I usually can't let all the work that had been done go away and just hold onto it, hoping that I'll find a solution. These lessons are interesting because they can be applied not only at the team level but also at the individual level.


## Group Project Standup Reports
One thing I noticed while listening to the stand up reports for the other project groups was that everyone was at a very different pace. While some groups had just finished installation, some groups had already completed several issues and attempted to make pull requests. Also, what I thought was interesting was that some issues that some people were working on were not really related to the development of the software itself. Compared to the average, I felt that my team was a bit behind on the progress so I thought maybe we can make other documentation contributions along with the current integration issue that we're working on.