---
layout: post
title: Week 4 Web Extension Project Reflection
---

## Reflection on Web Extension Project
The experience with the group work on this project had been good overall. Beyond the brainstorming stage, the team members divided up the work in three parts so they can be combined later. However, what I realized was that some of the work was dependent on other works and that they had to be constantly pushed and pulled to the repository. 
<!--more-->
The work flow turned out to be more comlicated than I expected, and this required more communication than I thought, but fortunately, all the members were very responsive and responsible. I think everyone made an equal amount of contribution to the team as we all equally participated in the meeting when writing necessary documents and communicated any problems when there was one while coding. Specifically for the code, I converted getDay() into actual English word, correctly put AM or PM, and added leading zero when the minute was below 10. The project didn't involve any other special tools but it did give me a chance take a better look at how web extension itself is built, specifically about the manifest file, which I was confused for a bit because there were several of them in the same directory. Then, for the presentation, I felt that my team could have done some more preparation. Some of the teams have prepared very thorough presentations and presented amazing ideas for their projects. One of my favorites was Brightspace PDF Viewer. The issue they tackled was the kind of problem that any NYU student would've felt at least once having to read any document directly from Brightspace. In terms of convenience, it seemed actually useful in real life.