---
layout: post
title: Week 5 Internet Archive/Open Library and Making My Contributions
---

## Reflection after Guest Speaker from Internet Archive/Open Library
Hearing Mek's first-hand experience about Internet Archive/Open Library project was something very interesting and new for me. He answered a lot of questions including some that I had in mind  about storage or the way it's operated. These are basic and quite obvious, but I was still surprised to hear the answers to them, such as that they have built their own building and server, that everything relies solely on donation, or that all the books have to be scanned by humans. Listening to the history of the project, I learned that it is a complex and high-maintenance yet non-profiting work and so that the only reason why things are working out is because of the contributors' belief in the greater good that this will bring to the world. Throughout his talk, I was able to feel this philanthropic idea underlying in all aspects. To see that there are people (other than those with religious careers) who are committed to what they believe is good for others rather than their own profits was, to be honest, quite touching.
<!--more-->

## Making My Contributions
This feeling made me want to contribute to open source projects too, and so far I've been working on Wikipedia and Open Street Map. For Wikipedia, I have made a total of three contributions. In the article about [Chartronges](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chartronges), I edited a line in the Climate section for a typo and smoothness in translation from French. In the article about [Meleeka Clary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meleeka_Clary), I deleted a wrong wikilink to an actual eclipse instead of a television program "Eclipse: The Rise of Ink." In the article about [educational inequality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Educational_inequality), I edited a simple grammatical error. For Open Street Map, I made several changes in the map for the areas near WSQ, Union Square, and Gramercy. I added new stores, such as Wolfnights, Lush, Popeyes, and NaNa Thai Street, changed an existing node to a correct store Paris Baguette, and edited tags for the Carlyle Court building. The biggest challenge during the entire process was, in fact, getting started. There was this psychological barrier to get over before I could actually start on making contributions. Learning about the projects itself, specifically, the formatting of the sources, the communication protocol, or the techinical aspects, was quite time-consuming and tedious than I expected. The results I see after, though, are small but proud. The one that I like the most is adding stores near Union Square in Open Street Map. The stores in that area are quite packed and change pretty often so personally, I used to get confused before I became familiar with the area. I'm glad other Open Street Map users won't get lost in that area their first time.


