---
layout: post
title: Week 15 Project Presentations
---

This week marked a milestone in the journey through open source software development as the class wrapped up with the final group presentations. My group's presentation revolved around contributing to a project called MindsDB that is an open-source, automated machine learning framework that enables developers and data scientists to build and deploy predictive models easily. 
<!--more-->

One of the most exciting aspects of the project was building relationships and a sense of community with other contributors, collaborating with them to work towards a shared goal. It provided an opportunity to gain new skills and knowledge in areas such as machine learning, data science, and software engineering, and seeing the impact of our work felt rewarding, knowing that the work has the potential to help others. However, there were challenges as well, with the biggest being the technical complexity of the project. From installing the software to understanding the codebase, every step of the process was difficult to navigate through. This then required a big time commitment especially since the issues were basically either documentation or the entire integration of a new feature. We had to overcome many obstacles along the way. Nevertheless, the experience was invaluable, and I am grateful for the opportunity to contribute to such an exciting project.

It was interesting to see the other groups' presentations as well. I was impressed by the diversity of projects and the creativity of the contributions, each driven by a shared commitment to open source development. One of the useful/interesting contribution that I remember is from the Jarvis team where they changed to make sure the reboot command indicates the reboot of the entire machine not just the container. I thought it was kind of funny too because the team said the motivation comes from their actual experience of confusion.

As I reflect on the diverse array of projects presented during the group presentations, I am filled with a sense of optimism. These projects are not just academic exercises; they have the potential to make a tangible difference in our society. Open source software development offers a unique avenue for collaboration and innovation, where individuals from different backgrounds can come together to create solutions that address real-world challenges.



